# i18n

A CLI command is provided to extract translations from twig files. It extends the core `i18n make-pot` command to include twig files.

`bin/docker/wp i18n-twig make-pot`

> Note: This will include PHP files and JS files, so you shouldn't need to run the core version as well. Doing so, will overwrite the translations that include the twig files.

## Translations

The easiest way to set up translations is to use the following scripts:

`bin/makepot.sh` - To make our project wide `.pot` file.

`bin/pot2po.sh` - To copy across our `.pot` file to `.po` files for each language. **Only creates if non existing.**

`bin/po2mo.sh` - Compiles the `.po` files into `.mo` files.


### 3rd party translations

We use [wp-translations-downloader](https://github.com/inpsyde/wp-translation-downloader) to manage 3rd party translations including core. To download translations for core WordPress and plugins, run:

`bin/docker/composer wp-translation-downloader:download`

## I need to update translations

So you've added some new text and put it through `__()`. In order for it to work as a translation you will need to take the following steps:

1. Run `bin/makepot.sh` - this will generate a fresh `pot` file which will contain your text

2. Run `git diff wp-content/languages/$PROJECT_NAME.pot` on the new `pot` file

3. Note what has changed

4. Open up `$PROJECT_NAME.pot` and look for the changes you spotted in the diff

5. Copy across _manually_ to `wp-content/languages/$PROJECT_NAME-en_GB.po` and `wp-content/languages/$PROJECT_NAME-cy.po`

> Try to keep them in the same location as they are in the `pot` file

6. Update the translations spreadsheet _manually_ with the stings you just copied across to the `po` files

7. Once you have recieved the translations, update the `po` files accordingly

8. Run `bin/po2mo.sh` to compile the strings and make them available to the site
